# Data Analysis Project 2022: Topic 03 Team 2 - Proteome-wide Screen for RNA-dependent Proteins
Proteins and protein complexes whose interactions are linked to RNAs are called RNA-dependent proteins (R-DeePs). These protein-RNA-interactions can be either indirect or direct, making RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) a subgroup of R-DeePs. Some RBPs' malfunction has been associated with human diseases, e.g. cancer or Alzheimer's disease. A proteom-wide screen for RNA-dependent proteins could help identifying new R-DeeP candidates. Therefore, studies based on the obtained results could reveal more information about RNA and protein functions linked to human diseases associated with RBPs' malfunction. 
<br>
<br>
In this project, we analyzed data generated by ultracentrifugation of protein lysates on a sucrose gradient. Two groups, one treated with RNases and one control group, were used. In the following step, the protein gradient was grouped into 25 fractions which were then analyzed by western plot or mass spectometry. As a result, the data contains information about the amount of every protein in each fraction under the two conditions. This data set was provided by our supervisor Dr. Maïwen Caudron-Herger and holds information about HeLa-cells synchronized in mitosis.
<br>
<br>
All of our analysis steps can be found in the file *analysis_rdeep.Rmd* located in the folder *rproject*. After installing necessary packages and loading the data, all analysis steps can be performed by running the file mentioned above. Our analysis consists of 5 major steps, which are explained in detail in our report. 
<br>
1. Cleaning and normalizing data
2. Identifying global and local maxima
3. Identifying R-DeePs 
4. Dimension Reduction Analysis using UMAP
5. Developing linare regression model and comparison of results
<br>

The report can be found as .pdf and .Rmd files in the *report* folder and includes methods, results and discussion next to the analysis steps. Furthermore, our GitHub repository includes folders containing our meeting protocolls (*meetings*) and all files regarding the project proposal (*project proposal*). 



